One… two… one two three four. The laid-back Bossa-Nova style backing track sang its first chord, AbM7, as I began to play Ceora, a classic Lee Morgan tune. The brushes and soft piano mirrored my relaxed, light, and quiet first few notes as I teased the audience with small fills and ghost notes, followed by a return to the light melody. As I finished the head, the B-section approached, and I began strengthening my volume and articulations. The auditorium was a football stadium, and I was Messi, enchanting the audience with my skills and ability, dancing from note to note. As the B-section closed, my palms began to sweat; my solo was approaching. AbM7. Bb-7. Eb7… and I began. 
To say that music is a big part of my life would be an understatement; calm lo-fi music fuels my concentration while indulging in the worlds of chemistry, physics, and quantum mechanics, just as heavy rock motivates me before crucial tournament soccer games. But by far, my saxophone is the most substantial connection I have with music. It is my voice, my muse, my everything. 
The notes are my words; when put together, they make coherent phrases that can tell stories, describe my mood, or vent my frustrations. As a less sociable person, my saxophone is the easiest way to express myself. While I might struggle to talk to a group of people or stumble over my words when trying to explain something, when I’m on stage and free to play anything, I’m the most confident and fearless man alive. Being a musician not only gives me a passage to the outside world, it also allows me to improve my skill set. 
I honed several skills from my playing, including leadership and responsibility. As the first chair for three years of my high school jazz career, I had to guide my section through every song, choosing the inflections and articulations for every phrase. As a senior, I have now taken the role of the student director, giving me responsibilities of distributing music, conducting rehearsals when our band director is absent, and coordinating our concerts and swing night. Besides my important leadership roles within music, I also developed my time management skills. Having to balance academics, soccer, taking care of my mother, 30+ hours of work a week, and still practice two hours a day has been a stretch at times; but it forced me to become more organized, developing plans and schedules for everything, which has carried over into my academics and work. Saxophone has been stressful at times, even with this added organization, but there’s one person who, no matter what, I will continue to practice and improve for; my mother. 
I began learning saxophone shortly after she was diagnosed with a glioblastoma brain tumor. Her surgeries and treatments have taken her speech and writing skills, but my instrument has always been a steady line of communication between us. She has never missed a concert and has seen me progress from a squeaky, unconfident 4th grader to a bold, assured 12th-grade lead alto who jumps at the opportunity to take improvisational solos. From late-night serenades after soccer practice and homework to my recent attempts at learning trumpet and piano, she is always eager to hear me play, and it is the easiest way for us to be present in one another’s lives despite the difficulty of her condition. 
The chords reset to the A-section. I take off, flying between flat 7s, 5ths, and 3rds while using grace notes to transition from chord to chord. Everything besides me and my instrument is frozen. The world is mine. Although it is just a 30-second snippet of improvisation, within it is the nine years I have dedicated to bettering my musical ability and my life story told not through words but through the unspoken communication of notes and melodies.