My mom carried me as we walked out of the cool [CITY] airport into the blazing sun. My dad promptly hailed an iconic yellow-top, black-bottom cab, and we were suddenly snaking through [CITY] sunbathed white skyscrapers, just offset from the glistening [NAME OF SEA].
“Mom, I’m hungry!” a six-year-old me exclaimed.
Mom pulled out the last packet of Parle-G cookies and handed them to me. Tearing the packet up and placing a cookie in my mouth, I relished the crunch and sweet sugar crumbs as they melted on my tongue. Suddenly, we hit traffic. A bull was crossing the road, and while the cars made way for this holy animal to pass, the homeless of [CITY] found this an opportune moment to solicit donations from the drivers. As we sat parked on the road, a girl my age knocked on the car window.
“[PHRASE IN ANOTHER LANGUAGE]”, she pleaded in [LANGUAGE].
My mom immediately grabbed the Parle-Gs out of my hand and gave them to the girl. The girl quietly thanked her and left. Sad to see my beloved cookies go, I quietly looked out the window at the street and the seashore. But my eyes were curiously drawn to the homeless lying on the side of the road, persistently requesting a morsel of food from passersby. I started to wonder what caused these people to live the way they did. In the best way I could articulate it, I turned to my mom to ask her what I felt was a simple question.
“Mom, why are some people poor?”
“Hmm…” she responded, thinking. “Because no one wants to give them a job”.
“Why not?” I pressed further.
“Because there was no opportunity for them to go to school”, she quickly replied.
I sank back down in my seat. “So the girl who knocked on our window doesn’t go to school? That’s weird. Isn’t every kid supposed to go to school?”, I wondered. Given recent geopolitical events barring Afghan women from receiving an education, I’ve been reminded (with a chill) of this moment from my childhood. 
I find it unacceptable that even after a decade of progress in multifarious fields, every child still isn’t guaranteed an education and the opportunity to pursue a prosperous future. As I’ve witnessed the vast and virtually ubiquitous accessibility that the internet - through Zoom, Khan Academy, and even YouTube - has brought to the realm of education, I believe we have a greater responsibility today to not let children in even the most remote of places and with even the most disadvantaged of backgrounds go uneducated. The main obstacle standing in our way to achieving this is the political will to do so, but with the right degree of leverage (and the right degree), that could all change in historic fashion! Pursuing an undergraduate degree to help build a stable foundation in the world of international relations, I aim to work with leaders both at home and abroad to ensure that every child has the same educational and career-oriented opportunities, regardless of origin or socio-economic background. By this point, I’ve gone all-in on my own education, but now - with eyes as wide open as my heart - I’m ready to take my impact to the next level and go all-in on education-for-all.