On my parents’ 22nd wedding anniversary, we received the dreaded call. My grandfather, my father’s father, had succumbed to Covid-19. He died alone due to Covid restrictions. He and my grandmother had flown from [STATE] to [CITY] so that my grandmother could have a hip replacement at [HOSPITAL NAME]. He contracted Covid while in [CITY]  and, in a tragic twist of events, he ended up dying in that very same hospital. When a loved one passes away, they are torn away from us, leaving a tear in our lives where they once were. In Judaism, we tear our clothes in mourning to symbolize our pain and sorrow. Sadly, the tears in our family fabric happened long before my grandfather died from Covid.
Specifically, my father married a gentile. Typically, in the Jewish religion, it is expected that one marry another Jew: "You shall not marry them (the gentiles, about which the Torah speaks in the previous verses), you shall not give your daughter to their son, and you shall not take his daughter for your son." The reason for this prohibition is clearly spelled out in the following verse: "because he will lead your son astray from Me and they will serve strange gods…"
My father was raised in a reform Jewish family. They were not very observant but, culturally, their Jewish identity was meaningful. It was important to his family that he become a bar mitzvah when he turned 13. The portrait of him reading from the Torah on the bima has always been proudly displayed in my grandparents’ home. I even used his yad (Torah pointer) and kiddush cup when I became a bar mitzvah. I think that my grandmother, however, wasn’t thrilled that my father fell in love with a non-Jew. 
Judaism is matrilineal, meaning one born to a Jewish mother is Jewish. My mother chose to convert from Catholicism to Judaism in her first year of marriage. She wanted her future family to be of one faith and, learning about the religion through my father, she eagerly converted to Judaism and embraced the customs and traditions. So my brother, my sister, and I are all Jewish through birth: matrilineally. 
Over the course of my parents’ happy 25 years of marriage, my grandmother has never warmed up to my mother; if anything, she became overtly hostile. Because of her disdain, my immediate family has been ostracized. While I was growing up, my parents tried to please her, but it was always tense at birthdays, holidays, recitals, and the like. We were left out of most family get-togethers. Even while at my grandparents’ home cheering for our beloved [FOOTBALL TEAM NAME], it seemed my family was on a separate team. My grandmother treated my mother like an outsider and, by default, me.
One person who never made my mother or any member of my family feel left out, however, was my grandfather. He did his best to knit the family together. He was a kind, intelligent, hard-working role model who I’ve always strived to emulate. He had a long career as a [PHYSICIAN] in [STATE], loved attending my piano recitals so much that he began piano lessons at the age of 80, and even sparked my love of fishing when I was five and he took me to a small pond near his home. He rarely missed one of my tennis matches and was supportive when I lost. Education was crucial to him, so he encouraged me to study and get good grades. 
My grandfather greatly enjoyed his time spent with us. One of my fondest memories is climbing into my grandfather’s old, wooden, black-and-gold chair. He told me it was his Harvard chair. On my father’s 40th birthday, my grandfather proudly presented my father with his own Harvard chair. He told me that if I worked really hard in school, someday I might get a shot at attending Harvard and becoming a third-generation alumni to continue their legacy. He said maybe someday I’d be the caretaker of all three chairs. I didn’t really know what Harvard was at that time, but I knew that no matter what happened, I was determined to make my grandfather and my father proud. I did what my grandfather said: I studied hard and got great grades, I trained hard and played great tennis, and I practiced hard and played great piano. As I write this, I am sitting in my father’s Harvard chair. 
Because of the rift in my family, I rarely saw my grandfather the last two years of his life. My parents threw him a party for his 80th birthday, which he loved because he was at the beach surrounded by all of his children and grandchildren. My parents invited them for birthdays, recitals, and Mother's Day, but my grandmother always said “no”. Looking back, I bet he would’ve loved to attend each event. After all, he moved to [CITY] to be with family. He would’ve loved that I’m applying to Harvard now, as it was always something he wished for me and of which he knew I was capable. I wonder what his application process was like back in the 1950s… 
Now, my grandfather is gone, and I have to wonder if all of the heartache was worth it. What did my grandmother gain by not welcoming my mother into the family? Her intolerance cheated us of time with my grandfather that we will never get back. But thanks to him, my background is as diverse as it comes. I’m a direct descendent of [SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS] who were involved in the Salem Witch Trials. I have a great, great grandmother from [COUNTRY] and great grandparents from [COUNTRY]. Diversity adds to families. Just as my father introduced her to Judaism, my mother brought gifts from her side, like excellent cooking, art, music, and height. Ultimately, I’m so glad that my parents found each other because, together, they made me.