“Would you like to dance?” When asked by one of the schoolchildren to dance in their cardboard schoolhouse located in a small village on the tip of [COUNTRY], my “Just Dance” video game skills simply did not prove sufficient compared to the pure joy in their little hearts that seemed to drive each dance step they took to the soulful beat. Upon arriving, I wasn’t expecting much from the homes held together by scraps of metal, repurposed wire, and cardboard boxes, but when I entered their makeshift school building, I stepped into a whole new world: [NAME] music, scents of spices to which my nose was unaccustomed, and children running around in clothes of colors so unique that I couldn’t even give them a name. When the teacher says “[WORD]” in [LANGUAGE], silence falls over the children like a blanket, and they stare at me in awe. This lasts only for a split second before they run up to me, unable to contain their excitement. “We have been practicing our English,” a little boy says to me amongst the chaos. “Would you like to dance?” 
“Yes, of course,” I reply. We gather in a circle and the beat of the drum echoes off the cardboard walls. I awkwardly try to dance to the rhythm and keep up with the children’s moves. I feel a small hand grasp mine, and I look down to see a little girl trying to sway me to the beat. “Loosen up,” she says as the other children erupt in laughter, instantly humbling my dance skills. Simply being around these children and their families allowed me to see the world through a different lens. There was no argument that could be made against the genuine happiness and sense of community that was present in that village. During my visit, one question seemed to ring louder than the rest: how could they be so happy with so little and how could people back home be so discontent with so much? These people were living under a roof made of scraps, yet the connection I felt with them was far more genuine than any association money could buy. These memories were so meaningful to me that they continued to linger in my mind even after I returned home. 
Sitting in class, the same items that those [ETHNICITY] families were using as supplies to build their houses, were being thrown in the trash can without a second thought or a recycling bin in sight. On a microcosmic level, the lack of recycling resourcefulness in my school building echoed the macrocosmic lack of bigger-picture perspective in my community. Looking for a way to alter the pattern of waste at my school and around the city, I joined the sustainability club, and we began to take action right away. We initially implemented a school-wide recycling program by placing a blue bin in each classroom, collecting them weekly, and taking the contents to the local recycling center. I realized the impact this could have not only on our school, but also on the community.  With the average school using 320,000 sheets of paper per year, our program has saved trees, reduced waste, and helped preserve the environment. With my hopes of every school in Reno following this model, 3,702 trees will be saved annually.
When I was younger, these numbers wouldn’t have even seemed possible to me, particularly as a fourth-grader. In fourth grade, I held the position of superintendent of grounds (even though I’m pretty sure I couldn’t even spell superintendent at that time of my life). As such, I developed a weekly schedule to pick up litter around the school and recycle it. To make a small impact took a big effort back then, so to see my small efforts at my school ripple around the community and make a big impact in Reno was quite a pleasant surprise! The accomplishments of my 9-year-old self may seem minuscule, but they connect me to my deeper roots of preserving the environment and have continued to feed my deepest-seated beliefs in sustainability along the way. Programs like the Harvard College Environmental Action Committee would allow these roots to continue to flourish and grow, guiding me on my path to plant the seeds of sustainability worldwide. Paradoxically, big change can stem from the smallest adjustment in how we view the things we consider ordinary, so the next time you go to throw away a piece of cardboard, first imagine what kind of home you could build with it.