Is it possible to fill everyone’s proverbial water cup? In “Tian Guan Ci Fu” (“TGCF”, or “Heaven Official’s Blessing” in English), this Water-Cup-Conundrum was answered. A State Preceptor once presented his Prince with the conundrum:
“If 2 men were walking in the desert about to die from thirst and you only had 1 cup of water to offer, which man would you give the cup to?” 
The Prince answered: “Both.”
The State Preceptor was perplexed: “There’s only 1 cup of water.” 
“Then I’d create a cup,” the Prince declared. “I’d ascend to the heavens, become a God, and create a cup.” 
Though the State Preceptor called him insane, the Prince stood firm. And I stand with the Prince, because I believe our world is positive-sum, where water cups can be created, and not zero-sum, where we’re forced to choose whose cup to fill.
All my life, I’ve acted as a bridge between parents, juggling the seemingly impossible task of trying to fill both cups when they’d demand I pick a side and fill only one cup. Consequently, I’ve been able to steer them away from divorce and towards a closer relationship than ever before, 30 years into marriage. Had I chosen just one side, my family wouldn’t still be whole.
This “fill-both-cups” philosophy has extended to my professional life. I’m an advocate for increasing the International Affairs budget and allocating more funding towards fighting extreme poverty. As a Political Ambassador for [ORGANIZATION NAME], a nonprofit dedicated to fighting extreme poverty, I have been lobbying Congress to increase foreign aid and help those in dire need. In January, I met with Senator Ted Cruz’s office to request an increase in foreign aid. From my research, Texas’s biggest trade partner is Mexico, and U.S. foreign aid has doubled trade with Mexico. National foreign aid has reaped economic benefits for Texas, meaning allocating more funds towards the International Affairs budget is a win-win policy, benefitting the state of Texas.
Though some, like the State Preceptor in “TGCF”, believe it to be impossible to create more abundance for all, evidence proves them wrong. In the book, the Prince ascends to Godhood and does the previously unthinkable - he descends to the mortal world to end wars and create peace, proving the impossible possible. Most importantly, the Prince represents the existence of win-win situations where abundance can be created and both cups can be filled.
Wholeheartedly, I believe that allocating funds to benefit other countries, especially to fight extreme poverty, is an example of creating another cup. Small investments to help the poor in foreign countries create large returns on investment for America. The world’s fastest growing economies often buy U.S. goods and expand American economic prosperity. Just like the Prince bet on himself to fill both cups and turned out to ultimately achieve the impossible, disregarding the Preceptor’s disbelief, I will continue to fill both cups - creating abundance where there is none.