The frigid wind pierced through my coat with ease. My body shook with the same intensity as the earthquake that forced my immigration. Only days prior, I was biking under the radiant Chilean sun with my best friend, Nachito; now, I was racing to enter the taxi that would shield me from the unforgiving Wisconsin winter. I sprinted inside and slammed the door behind me with all the strength my body could muster. Finally protected from the biting cold, I looked back to see the airport completely covered in a fluffy white substance. “Nieve,” my mom uttered. As the taxi started, my glossy eyes were locked on the airport until it was completely out of sight. 
	I was in a new hemisphere, a new season, and a new life. My childlike amazement marveled at everything from the flashing walk signs to the fancy garbage trucks with mechanical arms. I quickly learned that most “gringos” only spoke “ingliish.” Determined to master this new language, I immersed myself in it for months. After weeks of watching Super Why on PBS, my “ingliish” became English. After a few months of school, I found myself comfortably giving a taxi the directions to the food bank. Within a year, at the tender age of 7, I began translating legal documents for my mom. At this young age, I felt my innocence slip through my fingers like fine sand, replaced by the heavy burden of responsibility. 
While my family never reached any level of affluence, the trips to the food bank stopped by the time I was 14 years old. However, the food bank never left me. I had seen poverty firsthand, felt it, tasted it. And what I knew is that I never wanted that to be my station in life. Like my parents, I sought a better life for myself, and we all knew that the only way to accomplish that was through an education that my family could not afford.
Determined to bridge the gap between myself and the financial void, I knew it was time for me to seek employment. I couldn’t think of a more perfect place to work than Culver’s. The first time I ate Culver’s, my family and I walked 2 miles to indulge in their food as our special treat. It seemed appropriate that the very place that served as our refuge from poverty would then pave the financial path toward my success.
What I could not have anticipated were all of the character-changing ways that Culver’s would impact me. From my first day as a Team Member to my time now as a Crew Chief, while the money landed in my college fund, the challenges I faced along the way developed my resilience, leadership, and work ethic. My desserts screens screamed at me for being 20 minutes behind; I saw the panic in my understaffed kitchen’s eyes when dozens of orders appeared; My heart pounded when I evacuated the building due to a gas leak. Overcoming these experiences, among dozens of others, taught me skills I will carry for the rest of my life.
Like hands on clay, my experiences molded me. I accepted responsibility early on and learned how to ambitiously work toward my goals. Working for things that others take for granted is something that immigrants know all too well. Rather than wallow in self-pity for the hand life dealt me, I feel grateful for my hardships, as they have molded the qualities that inspire me to succeed.
	From Chile to Wisconsin, “ingliish” to English, and Team Member to Crew Chief, my resilience, passion for learning, and motivation have guided my growth. The difficulties I faced helped me grow from a timid boy in a new nation to a confident leader. Now, I’m no longer stuck peering back at the airport, but rather looking confidently into the future, eager for what's to come.