If admitted to Harvard, I’d undoubtedly concentrate in Government on the Honors track. With the program of study in public policy and an area of focus on social policy, I’d study education and inequality. With opportunities to explore my interests in politics, education policy, and Artificial Intelligence, Harvard’s academic opportunities serve as the perfect petri dish for my specific interests.
Entering as a sophomore, Harvard’s classic “Road to the White House” course would serve as my academic introduction to political races, with lectures including how candidates prepare for public speaking and the presidential image that candidates are expected to exude. I’ll be taking notes not just to excel in the class, but to craft my own public image as a public servant moving forward! Because all Government concentrators are allowed to meet 2 of their elective requirements through courses at the Harvard Kennedy School (HKS), I’d be elated to cross-enroll in HKS. Specifically, I’ve read Professor Roger Porter’s book Presidential Decision Making and would be thrilled to take Professor Porter’s class “The Business-Government Relationship in the United States” as an entrepreneur and aspiring political candidate. To further deepen my understanding of public policy, I’d join the Institute of Politics' Policy Program, a Harvard undergraduate-run think tank to develop my skills in policy research.
Though I’m less certain of which year - sophomore, junior, or senior - I’ll do the following, I’m excited to cross-enroll in HKS for education policy classes such as “Program Evaluation and Education Policy” by Professor Thomas Kane, where I’d be able to study the best way to approach education from a policymaker’s perspective. To round out my interdisciplinary journey throughout the greater Cambridge/Boston area, I’d take full advantage of the opportunities Harvard offers for cross-registering in Artificial Intelligence (AI) courses at MIT.
In my junior year, I’d utilize my combined knowledge of education policy and AI to create a social impact ed-tech startup that improves classroom instruction by harnessing new AI capabilities to provide personalized learning to students in real time. At this point, I’d also begin meeting with possible thesis advisors and applying to the Junior Deferral Program for Harvard Law School as a commitment to spending a few years in the workforce before gaining early admission to law school.
During the summer before my senior year, I’ll be conducting fieldwork for my senior thesis on whether a quantitative (grades and rankings-driven) approach is improving or impairing the quality of American education. I’d apply to be elected either a Class Marshall or Officer to plan future class activities in the same way that I led my high school senior class and am in charge of our ten-year reunion.
Even though it’ll be a very tight squeeze time-wise, all these foci are feasible within three years from sophomore to senior year - if I start now.