If asked to draw a family tree my hand would still over the white canvas, not knowing where to begin. Where there was once a towering tree with strong branches, now there is only the jagged edges of an axe to wood. An axe I never had control over, an axe of loss, choice, and circumstance. At six, as I sat pondering what color to use for the trunk of my family tree, I lamented its barren-nature. Fruitful branches higher up on the tree, cleanly sliced from the trunk, leaving no sign of their presence, but for a small scab of bark. These branches were victims of family that came before me, that following a family quarrel, took the liberty of wildly swinging the axe at the tree, taking with them wise grandparents, boisterous cousins, and giddy aunts that I’ll never meet. I chose yellow. Optimistically, I thought of it as “trimming”, better to have a healthy tree, than one riddled with brittle branches.  The following year, the axe swung again. This time I left my crayons in their box. My father’s branch had been severed too soon, and with its loss, the others around it withered, leaving my tree lopsided. My father’s side barren, and my mother’s scarce. After the age of seven, I lost the little love I had left for drawing family trees. As other kids decoupaged colorful leaves and attached gold-toned pictures to crayon-drawn Giant Sequoias, I was left with a stump, unable to place members on its branches, or know the depths of its roots. 
For a while, I resigned myself to an incomplete family tree; yet, I couldn’t forget my yellow trunk, colored by an optimistic six year old, so at fifteen, my relentless curiosity gave way and I began my journey to explore my roots. With a quick swab, and a month of patience, I soon had my ancestry results.
I have held on to these results for two years, in hopes of one day doing what all teens in American coming of age movies seek to do- embark on a journey of self-discovery. These movies emphasize explorative journeys of self-discovery where rebellious teens break free from their familial chains to discover their own path. In contrast to these stories, I believe my journey of self-discovery begins in the very connections these characters are adamant on breaking. I seek self-discovery in its purest form, as a way to first understand myself and my origins, before seeking to grow beyond them. If I took a gap year, my explorative journey would begin in [COUNTRY], a beautiful seaside town where my ancestors once lived. Perhaps they were dock workers with weathered hands, and salt-sprayed overalls, who labored under the beating sun, and had a penchant for [CITY]-grown tobacco, or maybe they were traditional fado singers, cozied into dark cafes and pubs, singing their melancholic song as they strummed their guitars with worn fingers. Next, I would visit the [CONTINENT]. I’ve never been much of a hiker, but my ancestors must have been, to navigate the high peaks and plateaus of the mountains. Perhaps they were ceramicists, with clay always caught beneath their nails and their hands stained three different colors from their mineral paint. Their houses beautifully decorated with their ceramics, depicting folk tales and family history.  Perhaps they were teachers of the [LANGUAGE], seeking to preserve it from the threat of globalization, carefully reciting [NON-ENGLISH SENTENCE], “Hello, How are you?” to eager students. They represent the rich cultural history of the [ETHNICITY], dedicated to preserving their history through breath-taking art and language. After, I would visit [COUNTRY], staying in [CITY] in hopes of watching their most popular sport, [SPORT]. Perhaps my ancestors in [COUNTRY] were of an older time, where [SPORT] was not for sport, but part of the preparation for battle, or perhaps they are still around as wrestlers seeking [NON-ENGLISH WORD], or “honor”. This evolution is a reminder to remain connected to tradition, celebrating it with others.  Lastly, I would visit [COUNTRY], taking a train across the [COUNTRY] countryside, breathing in the crisp Autumn air and witnessing the changing foliage. Perhaps my ancestors once did the same, cozying up in their seats with a worn copy of Bram Stoker’s “Dracula”, as stone houses flitted past their windows on their way to [RESTAURANT NAME] for the best bowl of [ETHNICITY] Stew. A reminder to appreciate life as it happens, taking in beautiful scenery and inspiring literature.
My gap year would allow me to fill in the “gap” in my ancestry. Although the plan for my gap year began with the intention of adding new branches to my tree and learning the depths of my roots, so that I too could color in a family tree, along the way, I realized that maybe I would never have a Giant Sequoia, but I could have a quilt. My family quilt would be made up of all the experiences of those who came before me, my dockworkers, ceramicists, wrestlers, and bookworms, each of their stories colorful patches of my quilt. Knowing my ancestry is an assurance that I am not the sapling I once thought I was, with no roots to hold her down in the face of a storm, rather, I am capable of paving my own path, supported by the comforting presence of my family quilt draped over my shoulders. Though this trip wouldn’t mark the conclusion of my journey of self-discovery, it would be the embarkment of something great. My journey is sure to be fruitful, teaching me that when difficulties arise, I will be able to turn to my family quilt, tracing the stitching between patches, and take comfort in the resilience and passion of those that came before me.