At the heart of everything I do lies one core driver: impact. Because of that, my postgraduate plans begin with pursuing entrepreneurship and education reform, then shifting to law and public policy.
In my early career, organically scaling [COMPANY] will likely be how I make the greatest impact, as startups enable widespread outreach and freedom regardless of age. Furthermore, making financial literacy more accessible is key to millions of Americans breaking out of debt or into financial freedom, and though startups are always at risk of failing, nothing great comes easy or riskless. In my junior year of college, I’d like to apply for Harvard Law school’s Junior Deferral Program (JDP). The JDP Program will allow me to spend 2 or more years pursuing my entrepreneurship propensity (by scaling [COMPANY] full-time) and allow me to spend time in the real world before law school, further enriching my law school experience.
Once [COMPANY] attains at least a million users to measurably help overcome our country's limitations regarding financial literacy, I'd turn my attention from the bank boardroom to the Supreme Courtroom and attempt to address our nation's most poignant public policy issues, such as a lack of gun control, providing accessible health care, and funding the public education system. To do so, I’d attend law school (preferably, Harvard Law School) and specialize in public interest law, pursuing my proclivity for making resources more accessible and equitable. The same way [COMPANY] aims to make financial literacy more accessible to everyday Americans, I’d make the legal system more accessible to everyday Americans. Using my entrepreneurial skills, I seek to found a civil rights law firm with a mission to represent the underrepresented: those who are the most in need. After practicing civil rights law, it is, always has been, and always will be my mission to run for state public office, and then for national office. In the same way that I served as Class President and led my school district’s leadership council to advocate for a successful change in our district’s GPA system, I’d be both honored and humbled to serve our country and create greater positive change in our nation because serving others is the one thing that makes me happiest.
Entrepreneurship, education reform, and policymaking are my clear callings; allied with my mission to help those most in need, I’d like to make financial education accessible to all by scaling [COMPANY], pursuing civil rights law, being elected to public office, and passing much-needed legislation to improve equity nationally and possibly even, with a robust enough platform like that of Harvard, globally. And although global impact may still be a ways away for me, an essential modus operandi that has helped me persevere when the road ahead seems overwhelming is to “think globally, act locally”, which crystallizes both my career goals as a prospective public servant and my very reasons for seeking transfer.