Nothing drains the hope from the very core of my soul as much as scrutinizing the joys of Utah politics. I grew up in a state bombarded by the never-ending narrative of the broken nature of the political system meant to represent my fellow citizens and me. Party supermajorities seemingly dominate most governmental branches available. Utah districting ensures huge advantages to particular political parties, and elected officials appear to cling to office for a decade or longer no matter how egregious their actions are. However, I have a penchant for taking on seemingly impossible tasks and have also suffered from a begrudging but stubborn infatuation with politics since middle school when I became as addicted to CNN as I was to cartoons. So, partly due to a whim but primarily due to a budding desire to involve myself in the political sphere, I took on an internship under Utah House politician [NAME], who would be running for an at-large seat on the [CITY COUNCIL] during the [DATE] midterms. 
My first assignment was to help run a campaign kick-off fundraiser attended by celebrities of [STATE] politics, including former and current mayors, [STATE] House and Senate members, and even previous federal politicians. After I spent the night starry-eyed, rushing to meet politician after politician until my feet swelled in my too-small dress shoes, I thought that I had already experienced what would be the best moment of my internship days after it began. Though I was right that it would be a moment I’ll always cherish, I was wrong to believe it would be the pinnacle of my internship experience. 
As the summer months rolled in, the bustle of the campaign truly ignited, and the hard work began. While completing what most people would view as the most mundane tasks, I discovered the extraordinary aspect of politics: the utter humanity undergirding every part of the campaign process. As part of a small, grassroots campaign, I spent almost all my time face-to-face with citizens across the county, granting me the privilege of hearing from people with wildly different opinions. As I handed out literature and signs at parks, I engaged in conversations about people’s takes on what it truly means to be a Democrat in [STATE] or about what we must do to increase political activism throughout the state. As I knocked on door after door in neighborhoods countywide until my knuckles bruised while canvassing, I was met with takes on governance and cost of living radically different from my own but deeply interesting all the same. As I pored over spreadsheets to reach out to campaign donors, I noted the vast variety of people who chose to support our campaign. These interactions exposed me head-on to the people behind every election and statistic that finds its way into the news. They gave me a renewed sense of purpose as I was reminded daily of the infinitely large impact politics had the potential to exert on my community, something I simply had not been able to conceptualize before my hands-on experience. Above all, it reminded me why accepting diverse opinions and reconciling differences is necessary, something I had forgotten the importance of.  
My time in debate encouraged me to value contradictory beliefs early on. I reveled in spending hours getting intellectually destroyed by other students across the country all with the chance to learn from other debaters’ unique understandings of issues and examine my own in relation to this diversity of thought within the world of debate. Yet, I had struggled to apply that to the real world and suffered from a lack of willingness to budge on my political views after growing up in a world defined by hyperpolarization and a general refusal to cede any ground on divisive societal issues. That is why my internship represents a fundamental shift in how I view the world. As I have increasingly encountered people deeply affected by politics, I recognize the necessity to push for dialogue that will result in action. Those same people, the ones who were willing to have long talks on their porches about issues on their minds and the ones who offered cool water bottles when I was canvassing in [STATE]’s suffocating summer heat, would be the ones who suffered if political dialogues failed to materialize into tangible action. So, I learned to embrace difference rather than balk at it, transforming my methods to make change from ones that would align with my interests to ones that acknowledged other perspectives I would be completely blind to otherwise. 
From now on, I’ve made a vow to strive for the uncomfortable and the challenging. Living in a state where my views represent the minority is something I now see as a gift. Every conversation is an opportunity to learn something new because no one thinks the same way I do, and that is a wonderful, not undesirable aspect of humanity. So, I won’t be the next victim of the ideological dogmatism that has dehumanized modern politics. People who seek to change the world through actions informed only by their own perspectives will always fall short because their actions will serve themselves rather than the people impacted by those initiatives.